

===== PAGE 1 =====

EE6483 Artificial Intelligence and Data Mining 
Mini Project (Option 1) 
 
Due: Friday (11:59pm), 17 Apr, 2026 
Sentiments of Product Reviews 
[Source: https://www.kdnuggets.com/2018/03/5-things-sentiment-analysis-classification.html] 
 
Sentiment analysis (a.k.a opinion mining) is the use of natural language processing (NLP) to determine 
the polarity (i.e., positive, negative and neutral) of a given piece of text. You are required to build a 
learning-based classifier to classify the sentiments of product reviews. The whole process involves the 
following steps: 
1. Reading in data:  In this project, you will be using product review data [1]. You will need to 
load the dat a from the provided json files. There are two csv files, namely training set 
(“train.json”) and testing set (“test.json”), each contains examples in the dataset splits.  The 
attributes of the data are as follows: 
a. reviews – the user review of the product (in raw text) 
b. sentiments – the ground truth sentiment of the review, where 0 represents negative 
and 1 represents positive.  
2. Data processing: You will need to convert the raw data into appropriate feature format  such 
as via bag-of-words models (e.g., TF -IDF), pretrained word embeddings  model [2,3] or 
pretrained language models [4]. The procedures in this step may vary according to the feature 
format selected. You may refer to the “tfidf_features_example.ipynb” for an example on how 
to convert the review from raw text to TF-IDF features.  
3. Model Selection: You are to design and develop a classification model to classify the 
sentiments of product reviews. You  are encouraged to use neural networks for this task. For 
example, you can  treat the review as a sequence and embed them using recurrent neural 
network (RNN) or pretrained language model such as BER T [4], then pass the embeddings to 
a classifier layer.  


===== PAGE 2 =====

4. Training: You will need to try different model parameters to obtain good classification results, 
e.g., feature dimension, weights, initialization, and learning rate. In the training stage, your 
algorithm should take only the input s from the training set  and predict the ir corresponding 
labels.  
5. Prediction: By setting up the correct learning algorithm, you can classify the sentiment of the 
reviews in the test set. You need to report the classification results of the testing data in the 
file (“submission.csv”). 
Submit your report to answer the following questions: 
a) Literature Survey on the following aspects: 
(1) Study and review tutorials, books, or surveys related to the field to gain a comprehensive 
understanding of the entire domain . Please  clarify problem definitions, state the 
challenges and common solution types  under different settings, e.g., supervised vs. 
unsupervised, closed-set vs. open-set, with vs. without domain shift. 
(2) Use paper references, keyword searches, and conference paper lists to find papers that 
have received significant attention in recent years. Quickly read and summarize dozens of 
papers to understand the latest developments in the field. 
(3) Review the recent progress in this field: Based on your understanding, identify one or two 
top-performing groups in the field , select some papers of interest for in -depth reading, 
and write a summary of these selected works in detail. 
(4) Based on the survey and review, explain which approach or method is suitable as the 
baseline for tackling the targeted problem here. Explain and motivate what improvements 
need to be made to implement the proposed solution for the project. 
(20% marks) 
 
b) State your choice of feature format. Describe the data preprocessing procedures to convert 
the raw data into appropriate feature format for input to the model. (5% marks) 
 
c) Select at least one appropriate model (e.g., RNN + linear layer , etc.) to build your classifier. 
Clearly describe the model you use, including model architecture figure, the input and output 
dimensions, structure of the model, loss function(s), training strategy, etc. Include your code 
and instructions on how to run the code if you are solving the problem by programming. If 
non-deterministic method is used, ensure reproducibility of your results by averaging the 
result over multiple runs, cross-validation, fixing random seed, etc. (15% marks) 
 
d) Discuss how you consider and determine the parameters (e.g., learning rate, etc.) / settings 
of your model as well as your reasons of doing so. (5% marks) 
 
e) Apply the classifier(s) built to the test set (“test.csv”). Submit the “submission.csv” with the 
results you obtained. (15% marks) 
 
f) Analyse some correctly and incorrectly classified (if any) samples in the test set. Select 1-2 
cases to discuss the strength and weakness of the model. (10% marks) 
 
g) Discuss how different choice of feature format may affect the project in terms of resource 
consumption and accuracy. (10% marks)  
 
h) Assuming that in a separate project, you need to perform sentiment classification on hotel 
reviews. However, the hotel reviews consist only of reviews in raw text and does NOT come 
with rating scores . D iscuss how your classification algorithm would perform in this new 
project and how can it be modified to perform well in this new problem. (10% marks) 

===== PAGE 3 =====

 
i) For the same sentiment classification problem in (g), if the rating scores are given, but 
inaccurate (i.e., noisy annotation). Discuss how your classification algorithm would perform 
in this new project. Name three approaches that you can improve your algorithm  to perform 
well in this new problem. (10% marks) 
 
 
Notes:  
▪ If you couldn’t obtain any meaningful results or answers to the questions above, you may 
describe what you have done and attach the relevant working, codes, or screenshots, if 
available.  
 
▪ Work in group of THREE students and submit one report  which must clearly indicate (1) the 
group members and (2) the respective contribution of each group member to answering the 
questions.  
 
▪ You should clearly cite all the references and sources of information used in your report.  
 
▪ You are expected to uphold NTU Honour Code.  
 
▪ Submit your report and the file “submission.csv” with your results to NTULearn by the 
deadline: Friday (11:59pm), 17 Apr, 2026. 
 
 References 
1. John Blitzer, Mark Dredze, Fernando Pereira. Biographies, Bollywood, Boom -boxes and 
Blenders: Domain Adaptation for Sentiment Classification. Association of Computational 
Linguistics (ACL), 2007. 
2. Mikolov, Tomas, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean. "Efficient estimation of word 
representations in vector space." arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781 (2013). 
3. Pennington, Jeffrey, Richard Socher, and Christopher D. Manning. "Glove: Global vectors for 
word representation." In Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural 
language processing (EMNLP), pp. 1532-1543. 2014. 
4. Devlin, Jacob, Ming -Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. "BERT: Pre -training of 
Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding." In  Proceedings of the 2019 
Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: 
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pp. 4171-4186. 2019. 
5. https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/ 